README.md, before:

# SLAVV Python Port

Python and Streamlit reimplementation of **SLAVV** (Segmentation-Less, Automated, Vascular Vectorization) for 3D vascular network vectorization from microscopy volumes. This repository includes the core library, a web UI, and tooling to compare results with the original MATLAB implementation.

## Repository structure

| Path | Description |
|------|-------------|
| **source/slavv/** | Core Python package (energy, tracing, graph, I/O, visualization) |
| **source/slavv/apps/** | Web applications (`web_app.py`) |

| **scripts/** | Developer tools for MATLAB comparison and validation |
| **tests/** | Unit, integration, and UI tests |
| **docs/** | [Documentation index](docs/README.md): architecture, development, migration |
| **legacy/** | Original MATLAB source (`Vectorization-Public`) and scripts |
| **external/** | Large binary dependencies (e.g. `blender_resources`) |
| **CONTRIBUTING.md** | Contribution guidelines and testing |
| **pyproject.toml** | Package metadata and dependencies |

## Getting started

### Quick Setup (Windows)

Run the automated setup script:
```powershell
.\setup_env.ps1
```

This will:
- Create a virtual environment (venv or conda)
- Install all dependencies from `pyproject.toml`
- Register a Jupyter kernel for notebooks
- Guide you through the next steps

### Manual Setup

1. **Clone this repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/UTFOIL/slavv2python.git
   cd slavv2python
   ```

2. **Create and activate a virtual environment**:
   ```bash
   # Option A: venv (built-in)
   python -m venv .venv
   .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1  # Windows
   source .venv/bin/activate      # Linux/Mac
   
   # Option B: conda
   conda create -n slavv-env python=3.10
   conda activate slavv-env
   ```

3. **Install the package in editable mode**:
   ```bash
   pip install -e .
   ```
   This installs all dependencies from `pyproject.toml` including matplotlib, numpy, scipy, etc.

4. **For notebook usage, install Jupyter**:
   ```bash
   pip install jupyter ipykernel
   python -m ipykernel install --user --name=slavv-env --display-name="Python (SLAVV)"
   ```

5. **Validate your setup**:
   ```bash
   jupyter notebook scripts/0_Setup_and_Validation.ipynb
   # Select kernel: "Python (SLAVV)"
   ```

📘 **Detailed setup guide**: See [docs/ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md](docs/ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) for troubleshooting and best practices.

### Launch the Web Application

   ```bash
   streamlit run source/slavv/apps/web_app.py
   ```
   Open the provided URL in your browser.

## Usage

### Programmatic Usage (Headless/Batch)
For integration into other pipelines or running on a cluster without the UI, use the `SLAVVProcessor` class.
See **`examples/run_tutorial.py`** or the docstrings for details.

```python
from slavv import SLAVVProcessor

# Initialize
processor = SLAVVProcessor()

# Run
results = processor.process_image(image_data, params)

print(f"Vertices: {len(results['vertices']['positions'])}")
print(f"Edges: {len(results['edges']['traces'])}")
```



## Testing

Verify that the environment is configured correctly by running the test suite:

```bash
python -m pytest tests/
```

## Troubleshooting

- **ImportError for `source.slavv`** – Ensure you are running Python from the repository root.
- **ValueError: expected 3D TIFF** – `load_tiff_volume` only accepts grayscale, volumetric TIFFs.
- **High memory usage** – enable memory mapping with `load_tiff_volume(..., memory_map=True)` or reduce tile sizes via `max_voxels_per_node_energy`.

For the canonical port status, see [docs/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md](docs/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the [GNU GPL-3.0](LICENSE) license, consistent with the upstream SLAVV (Vectorization-Public) repository.

Commit message:

feat: Establish initial framework for MATLAB-Python comparison, validation, and analysis with new tools, notebooks, and documentation.

README.md, after:

# SLAVV Python Port

Python and Streamlit reimplementation of **SLAVV** (Segmentation-Less, Automated, Vascular Vectorization) for 3D vascular network vectorization from microscopy volumes. This repository includes the core library, a web UI, and tooling to compare results with the original MATLAB implementation.

## Repository structure

| Path | Description |
|------|-------------|
| **source/slavv/** | Core Python package (energy, tracing, graph, I/O, visualization) |
| **source/slavv/apps/** | Web applications (`web_app.py`) |
| **source/slavv/scripts/** | CLI wrappers and MATLAB scripts |
| **notebooks/** | Interactive notebooks for analysis and development |
| **experiments/** | Output directory for runs and comparisons |
| **tests/** | Unit, integration, and UI tests |
| **docs/** | [Documentation index](docs/README.md): architecture, development, migration |
| **legacy/** | Original MATLAB source (`Vectorization-Public`) and scripts |
| **external/** | Large binary dependencies (e.g. `blender_resources`) |
| **CONTRIBUTING.md** | Contribution guidelines and testing |
| **pyproject.toml** | Package metadata and dependencies |

## Getting started

### Quick Setup (Windows)

Run the automated setup script:
```powershell
.\setup_env.ps1
```

This will:
- Create a virtual environment (venv or conda)
- Install all dependencies from `pyproject.toml`
- Register a Jupyter kernel for notebooks
- Guide you through the next steps

### Manual Setup

1. **Clone this repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/UTFOIL/slavv2python.git
   cd slavv2python
   ```

2. **Create and activate a virtual environment**:
   ```bash
   # Option A: venv (built-in)
   python -m venv .venv
   .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1  # Windows
   source .venv/bin/activate      # Linux/Mac
   
   # Option B: conda
   conda create -n slavv-env python=3.10
   conda activate slavv-env
   ```

3. **Install the package in editable mode**:
   ```bash
   pip install -e .
   ```
   This installs all dependencies from `pyproject.toml` including matplotlib, numpy, scipy, etc.

4. **For notebook usage, install Jupyter**:
   ```bash
   pip install jupyter ipykernel
   python -m ipykernel install --user --name=slavv-env --display-name="Python (SLAVV)"
   ```

5. **Validate your setup**:
   ```bash
   jupyter notebook notebooks/00_Setup_and_Validation.ipynb
   # Select kernel: "Python (SLAVV)"
   ```

📘 **Detailed setup guide**: See [docs/ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md](docs/ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) for troubleshooting and best practices.

### Launch the Web Application

   ```bash
   streamlit run source/slavv/apps/web_app.py
   ```
   Open the provided URL in your browser.

## Usage

### Programmatic Usage (Headless/Batch)
For integration into other pipelines or running on a cluster without the UI, use the `SLAVVProcessor` class.
See **`examples/run_tutorial.py`** or the docstrings for details.

```python
from slavv import SLAVVProcessor

# Initialize
processor = SLAVVProcessor()

# Run
results = processor.process_image(image_data, params)

print(f"Vertices: {len(results['vertices']['positions'])}")
print(f"Edges: {len(results['edges']['traces'])}")
```



## Testing

Verify that the environment is configured correctly by running the test suite:

```bash
python -m pytest tests/
```

## Troubleshooting

- **ImportError for `source.slavv`** – Ensure you are running Python from the repository root.
- **ValueError: expected 3D TIFF** – `load_tiff_volume` only accepts grayscale, volumetric TIFFs.
- **High memory usage** – enable memory mapping with `load_tiff_volume(..., memory_map=True)` or reduce tile sizes via `max_voxels_per_node_energy`.

For the canonical port status, see [docs/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md](docs/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the [GNU GPL-3.0](LICENSE) license, consistent with the upstream SLAVV (Vectorization-Public) repository.
